Add Blogpost about Media Segments (#1170)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: blog/2024/10-26-media-segments-10.10.0/index.mdx

---
title: Jellyfin Media Segments Explained 10.10.0
description: What are Media Segments and how to use them in version 10.10.0
authors: JPVenson
slug: jellyfin-media-segments-10.10.0
tags: [release]
---

> First of all things i would like to introduce myself as a new Server-Team member for the jellyfin FOSS project.

Reviewer: While I appreciate the introduction, I'd leave it for the end :-) Also capitalization, etc.

Jellyfin only stores and provides this data to clients but to generate it you need a Plugin that provide this data to jellyfin to be stored.

We did create a plugin to create segments based on Chapter names which sounds similar but is something different. 
A Chapter is just any section of a video, but without any defined type. 
A MediaSegment on the other hand is a section in a video, with a defined type.

## Media Segment Plugins

Media Segment plugins can now utilise our new System to store their information about Intros/Outros/Commericals and all other types of segments. 
This information is then used by clients via our Api to provide actions like a "Skip" button in their UI.
The big benefit here is that this approach generalises how Segments are handled so gone are the days where you needed to inject javascript into the webUI to get IntroSkipping.

This does *NOT* make the existing plugins obsolete however as we still rely on them to generate the segments in the first place. 
But as more clients implement support, we can bring their Segments to more clients and provide for exmaple IntroSkipping.

## Media Segments on clients

> Currently the WebUI and the AndroidTV client support MediaSegments. 

Reviewer 2: MediaSegments for the AndroidTV client has only been implemented in the Master branch and is not available in the current release.

> ---

Reviewer 3: Make sure to rename the file-name to the correct date before merging

> title: Jellyfin Media Segments Explained 10.10.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Media segments explained
```

No need to mention the product name or version in the title, you're already on our blog where all that information is readily available

> description: What are Media Segments and how to use them in version 10.10.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: What are media segments and how to use them in Jellyfin 10.10
```

authors: JPVenson

> slug: jellyfin-media-segments-10.10.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
slug: media-segments-explained
```

> tags: [release]

Reviewer 3: This is not a release post

---

{/* truncate */}

> ## Media Segments Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Media segments overview
```

> First lets start with the basics of what a Media Segment is.
> A Media Segment exists only within our database and defines a timespan within a movie or episode with a certain types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First lets start with the basics of what a media segment is. A media segment exists only within our database and defines a timespan within a movie or episode with a certain type.
```

The database part is too technical for average user, so I'd remove it.

```suggestion
First lets start with the basics of what a media segment is. A media segment defines a timespan within a movie or episode with a certain type.
```

Reviewer 3: May also want to start with something like that it is a new feature in 10.10 and link to the release post there

> Those types can be currently one of the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We currently support the following types:
```

- Commercial
- Preview
- Recap
- Outro
- Intro

### An example

> An episode that is 16 minutes (00:16:00) long, can have multiple segments:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An episode that is 16 minutes (00:16:00) long could have the following segments:
```

1. from 00:00:00 until 00:03:08 there is an `Intro`
2. from 00:08:03 until 00:08:59 there is an `Commerical`
3. from 00:14:30 until 00:16:00 there is an `Outro`

Jellyfin can now store this information and provide it via the new MediaSegmentApi to clients. 
What we did not implement in 10.10 however, is the creation of those segments. 
Jellyfin only stores and provides this data to clients but to generate it you need a plugin that provide this data to jellyfin to be stored.

We did create a plugin to create segments based on Chapter names which sounds similar but is something different. 
A Chapter is just any section of a video, but without any defined type. 
A MediaSegment on the other hand is a section in a video, with a defined type.

> ## Media Segment Plugins

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Plugin support
```

Media Segment plugins can now utilise our new system to store their information about Intros/Outros/Commericals and all other types of segments. 
This information is then used by clients via our Api to provide actions like a "Skip" button in their UI.
The big benefit here is that this approach generalises how Segments are handled, so gone are the days where you needed to inject javascript into the webUI to get IntroSkipping.

This does *NOT* make the existing plugins obsolete, however as we still rely on them to generate the segments in the first place. 
But as more clients implement support, we can bring segments to more clients and provide for example IntroSkipping.

> ## Media Segments on clients

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Clients
```

> Currently the WebUI and the AndroidTV* client support MediaSegments. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Media segments are currently supported in the web interface and the Android TV[^1] app.

[^1]: Available starting from 0.18, currently [in beta](/posts/android-betas)
```

The server however just delivers the information about where the segment is in the video and of what type it is, it remains up the the individual client to decide what to do with that information.

As the whole system of Media Segments is quite new, please do not expect many clients to support it.

*The ATV client did not yet release a version with MediaSegment support.

> ## The Future

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## The future
```
